How business activities affect the gap.
In this section,
we will explore that the gap can vary in size based on the
kind of work you are performing and the size or level of
effort that you are executing.
I believe that all work that an organization must do can be
divided or found of three main categories,
operations, projects, initiatives.
Now let's drill into each one.
Now let's define and compare each work type.
Operations are day-to-day functions of the business.
Operational activities to keep the lights on.
Like a utility company, you just expect it all to work.
Issues or operational requests are typically tracked in a
tracking system such as JIRA or others.
Typically smaller units of work and always running sometimes even 7 by 24.
Now to projects, they drive new revenues,
they support existing or new products and services,
drive cost containment, management focus and attention,
typically medium in level of effort, and they have a distinct beginning and end.
And then the outcome of those projects become part of operations.
And lastly, to initiatives, they propel a company forward.
They're strategic in nature.
Major new products or services.
An executive focus rather than mid-management focus.
Typically, very large activities in terms of resources, people, and money.
Long-term strategic business outcomes.
Now let's see some examples.
I have chosen some very simplistic examples to further
illustrate and contrast the work types.
For operations,
a simple example may be enhance a user profile page
for a healthcare enrollment system.
This is a small activity, not too complex,
requiring a low amount of business or technical knowledge.
For projects,
a simple example may be add a new module to enable users to
fill out healthcare applications online.
This is a medium to possibly large activity requiring a
medium to large business domain knowledge and
significantly more technical knowledge.
For initiatives,
a simple example may be develop a new healthcare paperless application system.
Okay, this is in the big leagues now, very large,
complex,
requiring a significantly large amount of business
domain knowledge and technical knowledge.
Yes, these are simple examples, but hopefully they convey a relative size,
complexity, and level of effort.
Speaking of level of effort, let's make sure we're on the same page on that term's definition.